>> Will: Okay closure,
when our functions get called, remind me,
Art, how do I call a function?
>> Speaker 2: Parenthesis.
>> Will: Parenthesis.
Broken record, exactly.
When our functions get called,
we create a live store of
data.
>> Will: Inside this function,
array is no longer just array.
It is actually the value 123.
When I refer to array inside a copy
array manipulate, array is now 123.
I've created a live name space
with names with associated data.
Known as a local memory.
Known poshly, the official term in the
Java script spec is variable environment.
Variable environment, VE,
variable environment.
Known often informally as my application
state, my function level states.
My live data stored in memory
as my application runs, for
that function execution context.
Every time I call a function,
I create a live store.
When that function finishes
executing part of the call stack,
its local memory is [NOISE] deleted,
gone, except the return value.
When we return out that value,
JavaScript holds onto that data.
Everything else in here it's
what's called garbage collected.
This is no longer data that is being used,
and therefore JavaScript is gonna
automatically collect and
free up the memory.
This is now garbage, and so it is
automatically collected and cleared away.
In other languages we might have to
manually deallocate memory and say,
we don't need this anymore, it's free for
you to use the rest of the application.
In JavaScript it's
automatically deallocated,
automatic garbage collection when
we finish running the function.
It's local memory's deleted.
But what if our functions could hold on,
somehow,
to some live data between
their executions?
What if the next time I
ran copy array manipulate,
rather than it having no memory,
it starts from scratch?
If I ran copy array manipulate again,
it would have no memory
of this prior running.
This whole data here, all gone.
What if there a way that somehow
I could hold onto some data
between my functions being invoked?
So I run multiplyBy2, the first time and
I pass in two, the next
time I run it with four, it doesn't
remember the previous time it was run.
There's nothing inside there remembers.
What if there are a way that
my multiplyBy2 could hold
onto some live data?
Somehow attached, associated to
the definition of the function.
So if I were to define multiplyBy2 here,
>> Will: That were a function.
When I invoke multiplyBy2,
when I run it, I have the input of 3 and
create an execution context.
Its local memory starts from scratch.
If I ran it again, I don't know
let's say I run it again with three.
It doesn't matter,
it's local memory starts from scratch.
What if there were a way that between all
these different runnings of the function,
I could somehow persist,
hold on to some live data associated
with these function definitions.
What if there were a way of doing that?
That would allow me to
do some amazing things.
That would let our function definitions
have an associated persistent memory.
That would allow us to do
amazing things like maybe,
actually maybe remember this
function's been run once before and
say from now on, sorry,
you can't run me again.
I've been run once before.
Or maybe it will allow me to do something
like if the functionality were really
heavy lifting and complicated and
takes two seconds to figure out,
well maybe if I ran,
maybe the function was like n prime.
And it says, run me with a thousand and
find the thousandth prime number.
That's hard to find.
That's a lot of steps to find.
If I then run later in my application,
find a thousandth prime number again,
I don't want to start that all over again.
What if there were some way that my
function definition could hold on,
a little memory,
a little cache to the last time I was run
with a thousand, the resulting value.
This would be amazingly powerful, right?
This would change everything,
change everything.
I think it might change a lot, I think
it would change how I'd write code.
[LAUGH] We'll see,
this will be amazingly powerful, I think.
I think it would be very
profound if we could do this.
Who thinks it's possible?
Or who thinks we're just in,
maybe it's possible, who knows?
Or maybe we're just hoping around [LAUGH]
possible if our code could write itself.
Who knows?
We're not gonna discover that today.
Alright, so this is what's to come.
This is the essence of what we're
gonna get in this closure world.
But, it all starts folks with
something that is gonna feel very,
very disconnected from this profundity.
And also by the way to some extent,
it's gonna feel like,
hold on, why are we doing this at all?
You're gonna really ask, I wonder, why
are we doing this particular thing at all?
Returning a function from a function.
We're gonna do that and
you're gonna think?
Why are we returning
a function from a function?
It's gonna feel very bizarre, but
this underlining principle is gonna let
all of closure make sense for us.
So here we go, it starts with returning,
it starts with
us returning a function
from another function.
Very well written sentence,
indeed, there you go.